{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Verdana;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Hi all,\
Some of you asked how to use Lab systems from home and how to upload/download files, so I wrote a really brief file.\
\
How to use the Solaris System in the Lab from Home.\
\
If you want to use Solaris System in the Lab from home, you have to use SSH.\
Read the instructions given by the department.\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.it.uu.se/datordrift/faq/ssh"}}{\fldrslt http://www.it.uu.se/datordrift/faq/ssh}}\
\
\
Here I also give some command-line instructions:\
\
1. Choose one STUDENTS server that you like from the  following link:\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.it.uu.se/datordrift/faq/unixinloggning"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 http://www.it.uu.se/datordrift/faq/unixinloggning}}\
I chose celsius.it.uu.se as an example.
\f1\fs26 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
2. Do SSH. You need username and password that you obtained. Username is  usually four letters plus 4 numbers, password is what you used to login to the system in the lab. Assume, username is abcd1234, then you do ssh like:\
ssh abcd1234@celsius.it.uu.se\
\
3. If it is the first time you login to the sever, you type 'yes', to finish RSA key fingerprint.\
\
4. Type your password.\
\
5. Now you are on the server. You can do your lab and assignment now.\
\
\
How to upload and download files.\
Simply instructions on scp. \
1. scp is needed. Read scp --help, or Google it \
\
2. Upload .  In your computer (not the login command line), do scp files_in_your_computer abcd1234@celsius.it.uu.se:/home/abcd1234/destination_path/\
\
3. Download. Also in your computer, do scp  abcd1234@celsius.it.uu.se:/home/abcd1234/wanted_files  locations_in_your_computer\
\
Another way to do, you can use studentportalen. Under the tab "my file", you'll find your home directory on the lab system. Use it to upload and download.\
PS: I don't have a student account now, I am not sure about this way now. But when I was a master student, I did it.\
\
Have a nice day, and good luck for your assignment.\
Mvh,\
Jing\
\
}